And we do, like at times we'll just
do a topic or an idea or a theme.
Um, and so the question is why do
we walk through books of the Bible?
And the, and the thing is for
me, You don't skip anything.
So there's always the texts that you're
like, ah, you know, we could skip this.
This may not be valuable for us right
now, or, and that doesn't mean much to
me, but for us, it allows us to go over
everything and to be able to learn things.
And so today is an interesting text and
it's not that it's a bad text itself.
We're going to talk a lot about, uh, how
to minister to widows within the church.
What sort of thinking, how many
widows do we have in our church?
From my count zero widows, our church.
Now we have, um, a lot of women
in our church, but no widows.
So now w what do we do?
How do we take this knowledge?
Well, for us, it's one learning.
We might have widows in our family
because it does address how we handle
taking care of widows in our family.
But it also, it sets us up for success
to remember, as we have what it was
in our family or in our church, how
do we handle taking care of them?
And so we have some things we can
learn today, but I say all that to
say is, you're going to find this.
Bible reading right?
Every day that you read sometimes
if you've ever got to, is it the
book of numbers where all it is,
is these names genealogies, right.
And you're like, or these
numbers, and you're like,
what's the purpose behind this?
And it's always this reminder that
it's in there to build usually a case.
If you're talking about all the geneal.
It's helping you see the
lineage of Jesus, right?
The goal is to the point to Christ.
And so all these things that we have
in the Bible are beneficial for us.
So that's one thing I want to talk about.
The other is something that I can get you
get caught up into in days like today and
really what we've been dealing with the
last couple of weeks and what we'll deal
with in the weeks to come is, uh, Paul
is writing to Timothy in this portion
of the text to talk to the church about
how the church should conduct itself.
People of God should live
their lives out for him.
Well, what we can really get caught up
in, and this is one of the things I know
over the last couple weeks, and I'll
even think about today's text is we work
really hard on becoming better people,
but we're doing it for the wrong reasons.
So we try to become better people
to try to justify ourselves to God.
When in essence, that's not
what Paul's talking about.
Our justification before the Lord
is what Jesus did for us by grace
and mercy, which means we can't
do anything to earn God's love.
God gave.
To us.
And we accepted that.
But the things that we learn about
how we should conduct ourselves as
really what we talk about is how we can
help ourselves look more like Christ.
God has saved us through Jesus
to experience a life that is
more and more like Christ.
And that will help us now fall away
from our faith, not be deceived by
false teaching, which is what we've
been talking about in this text.
Here's the other key part so that we will
model and display the life of Christ.
To those around us.
And I talked about this last week
is we are basically showing people
around us, what we truly believe.
By how we act now, sometimes we
say something and we do the exact
opposite and you hear that being
somebody being a hypocrite usually.
Right.
And you hear that within the churches.
Oh, that church or those people are
filled up full of hypocrites wise.
Cause typically what the church
will do is it will say one
thing and it will live another.
So Paul is trying to drive the church.
He's telling Timothy to tell
the church, lead us, match our
conduct to the message of the God.
So today we land where we are with this
idea of how to conduct ourselves in the
church in a couple of different ways.
One of those is, and how we will
conduct ourselves in the church
towards younger and older believers.
But then we'll also talk about how we
should conduct ourselves in meetings.
The needs of widows.
And so just to kind of catch you up
just in the last week, um, we've been
talking about the importance again, of
how we conduct ourselves in this area.
One because of how we display the gospel
to those around us too, because it
builds one another up by how we live.
So if, if we're living worthy
of the gospel, those in the
church are inspired or encouraged
to live their lives that way.
And then he makes this statement
at the end of chapter four,
about how we should evaluate.
Our conduct because it may reveal
a false belief in our life.
So we know we talked about this.
We are consistently, uh, around false
teaching, whether we know it or not,
and this is what we always want to know.
We, we think false teaching
will display itself.
Clearly.
That is not true.
It will usually be covered in some form
of truth, which means we start believing
something because will that person.
So it's gotta be right.
Or that person, you know, he's got
a couple of degrees he's right.
Or she's right.
Or, you know, and so we, we start
thinking, things are true when
they're covered really with that
truth, but there's, there's,
there's false teaching under it.
So I say all that to say is we
need to evaluate our lives and
how we're conducting it so that
we know, Hey, is this truth.
And when we evaluate it, we evaluate it
against the word of God and whether it
would represent Christ well, and when
we do that, it allows us to realize.
Push out the false truths and align
our lives with Christ so that we
are displaying our lives in the way
that would be worthy of the gospel.
Right.
And so we're going to continue that
theme to those two things we had talked
about is, uh, how we address older people
and younger people in the church, how
we conduct ourselves towards widows.
But I want to ask this just, and
it's going to be a little bit
more of a question that I want
to drive a little bit deeper.
It seems like Paul is taking a
big section check section of this
to talk about our conduct in the.
And how we really even conduct
ourselves just around one another.
Why do you think Paul would spend so
much time speaking that to the church who
should have the spirit of God inside them?
Right.
So if we have the spirit of God
inside of us, which means Christ
inside of us, we're in the church,
the church is a good place to be.
Why is he spends so much time
about how we should conduct
ourselves around one another?
Why do you think that's true?
Yeah.
And how we were treat each other.
We'll actually even be more of a
reflection of how we'll treat others.
If we can't treat one another, well
here, how are we going to do out there?
And I've asked this question.
If you've been a part of a church that's
ever had issues where it seems like
people are biting at each other and
fighting, or there's, there's some kind of
conflict there's conflict in the church.
It needs to be dealt with why?
Because if we can't deal with it here,
we ain't gonna be able to deal with it.
So it's so important that
we deal with it here, right?
Because it really reveals our true heart.
And so we want to make sure that our
conduct matches that of Jesus had
displays to those around us in the
church and in our lives who Christ is.
So let's jump in this text.
So we're all in the same place here.
We're going to be in first Timothy
chapter five and we're covering the
first 16 verses a lot, but we'll
break this down and I'll go quick.
I promise to not keep you too.
And I also promise that the
guys won't be back there longer
than they have to as well.
But here's what it says, starting
in verse one, it says don't rebuke
the older man, but exhort him as a
father, younger men, as brothers, older
women, as mothers and younger women
as sisters with all purity, he says
support widows who are genuinely in.
But if any widow has children or
grandchildren, let them learn to
practice godliness towards their own
family first and repay their parents
for this pleases God, the widow who
is truly a Nene and left all alone has
put her hope in God and continues night
and day in her petitions and prayers.
However, she, who is self-indulgent
is dead even while she lives, command
this also that she will, uh, that she
will be, or that they will live above.
But if anyone does not provide for his own
family, especially for his household, he
has denied the faith and is worse than an.
No widow is to be enrolled in the list
for support, unless she is at least
60 years old has been the wife of one
husband and is well-known for good works.
That is if she has brought up children
shown hospitality, wash the Saint's
feet, help the afflicted and devoted
herself to good work, but refuse to
enroll younger widows for they are
drawn away from Christ by desire
that they will want to marry and will
therefore receive condemnation because
they have renounced their original.
At this same time, they also learned
to be idle going from house to house.
They are not only idle, but they are
gossips and busybodies, same things.
They shouldn't say therefore, I want
younger women to marry, have children
manage their households and give the
adversary no opportunity to accuse us for
some have turned away to follow Satan.
And if any believing woman has widows
in her family and let her help them
let the church not be burden so that
it can help the widows and genuine.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We just ask Lord that you open our
hearts and minds, Lord to what you want
us to know today, Lord, what we can
apply to our lives and what we can use.
Um, Lord, towards being a
church that represents you.
Um, Lord, not only to one another,
but to those outside of the church.
And so we pray this in your holy name.
So the first thing that Paul
addresses and chapter five is how
we should conduct ourselves towards
the older and young believers.
And I'm going to kind of group the
older, young believers together.
We're not going to spend a ton of time
on this, but we see here where he talks
about the older men and the older women.
So really what Paul is saying.
He wants us as a church to be respectful.
And he's speaking to Timothy as well.
Right.
But he's saying as a leader
and as people in the church,
we should be respectful to all.
Believers, no matter the age.
So with the older people, right.
Since Timothy was younger, it
would be easy for him to ignore.
And so we all know this there's
there's these clicks, right?
Nobody wants to call
it out, but typically.
People tend to hang out with
people of the same age or the same.
Hey, we have kids.
So when we begin to do that,
sometimes what happens is we begin
to prefer one group over the other.
We begin to distance ourselves from
an older generation or a younger
generation, because they're not like us.
They're not cool or they're immature.
So what Paul is saying is everybody
has benefit in the body of.
Don't show preference to one or
the other because of your age
or because of what you like.
And so he says here to not rebuke older
men, but to exhort them as fathers, right?
Don't be rude to them in speaking, even
to mothers, because he says this older
woman as mothers, don't be rude to them.
Don't don't pick on them,
don't leave them out.
But show respect, encourage them as
though they are your father and mother.
And this is what I would say here is
understanding the older generation.
Has lived a longer life.
They have more experience.
So what I would say is we need
more Dave and Stephanie's right.
We need more people to
come into our lives.
More people like you guys.
And I'm not calling you out as like,
as though like only old people.
But I would say we are a church that
lacks an older generation that I would
say we crave for more older generation.
Not because we just want to be
diverse in that we really believe
that the church as a body gains.
From the older generation.
So that's what Paul is challenging.
Timothy don't build a church that only
reaches a younger generation, even though
we need to reach a younger generation,
we need to be a church that reaches
and includes the older generation.
So respect them.
Right.
So that's a good side,
but here's the other side.
And I'm now starting to get to this age
where I might start thinking the younger
generation, is this an immature group
of generation, which sounds so funny.
Cause I'm like, I know,
I love you Carlene.
Right.
But why is he saying, look at
the younger generation and look
at them as brothers and sisters?
Well, when I think of the
younger generation at times,
I think of immaturity, I think
of maybe weak in their faith.
And sometimes what I would say is
they could come across annoying.
I love you guys.
So here's what's happening.
So you understand this, the word
of God is speaking to my heart
to say, Hey, they have benefit.
They have.
It's important to, to love them as my
brother and sister, which means this it, I
don't have any younger brother or sister,
but if I did, I know this is a younger
as the youngest child, they loved me.
They supported me no matter how young
I was now, they were a little bit
rude to me and probably for a good
reason, but we should treat them.
What I would say is they need more
tender, lover, care, love, and care.
Sometimes they need to
be brought up built.
And so we need to not look down on them.
We should treat them as
brothers and sisters.
So Paul is urging us, right.
And Timothy to conduct ourselves in a, in
a way that is honoring right to, to, to
the Lord and the way that we serve them
and care for them in the church, no matter
how old or how old they are, how young.
Right.
We should not play favorites.
So that was his challenge in here.
So that's a quick excerpt there.
Paul's making sure he's addressing this.
And so now we're going to transition
to this idea of how we should conduct
ourselves towards widows in the church.
Right?
And here's the key theme to
this verse three and verse
16 is the key idea to this.
And here, I'm going to read those to you.
Verse three says, Timothy, basically.
I want you to support
widows who are genuinely in.
And then he ends that portion of it.
In verse 16, he says, let the church
not be burdened so that it can help
widows who are in genuine need.
So the reason why he's writing this text
is he's saying the church is supposed to
meet the needs of the church specifically.
And if you'll even go into James 1
27, it talks about that we should
minister to widows and orphans.
Right?
And so that's a, that's
a ministry in itself.
So as a church, we want
to be able to do that.
But what he's saying is we need to
meet the needs that are genuine.
And I would even say that as
a church, we're going to dive
a little bit more into that.
What is a genuine need in the church?
How do we do that?
And so Paul doesn't leave us hanging here.
Right?
So let's talk about the first
group that he talks about.
Right?
So he's talking with the older widows.
How do we.
Conduct ourselves towards
the older widow widows.
So we know this, if you've studied enough
in the book of acts, book of acts six is
whenever the, they appointed the apostles
appointed deacons to meet the needs of
widows because they were not being met.
The needs were not being met well.
And so they appointed these deacons.
So they wanted to make sure that
they had a ministry for, so Paul's
continuing that thought, right.
But when we think about this and he
says that we want to meet genuine needs.
Paul is saying to be
careful with our resources.
And I wanted to bring this up as a
church, one of our key values, as
we talk about wise generosity, as
we were thinking through what is,
what do we want to be as a church?
One of the things I wanted to be as
a church is to be generous, which I
think is a great thing, but I think
there's wisdom in it, which means this.
We need to meet the needs
that are not being met in our.
Right.
There's things that already been met.
Let's let those continue to be
mad, support those people, but
let's meet the things that are not.
And so you see us going into different
avenues where we feel like that there
are gaps in our community, and now we're
not looking to somebody else to meet
those needs, but we're meeting those.
But I would also say that within
our church for one another, as
we see opportunity to serve, we
need to look for those that are.
And coming out of a church background
in Oklahoma, I was approached, I
was over benevolence at our church.
I was approached weekly with
needs that would come in and
there would be a request.
And there'll be a couple of
questions that I would ask.
Number one, is this a one-time need or
an ongoing need of as an ongoing need?
We said, Hey, could we
give financial counseling?
You know, can we help you
find a job most of the time?
Not all.
Most of the time we were a response
back is it is a consistent.
And we're unwilling to get a job and we
don't want financial counseling to me.
I would go back to, there's not a genuine.
That's hard to tell somebody,
no, why isn't it a genuine need?
Because they're refusing to get a job.
The refusing counseling that
may help them be able to attain.
We were willing to help along that
if they would take that journey.
But most of the time they're not.
So that's exactly where Paul's
talking about here, right?
Is that we need to meet genuine needs.
So he sets up these qualifications
to say, how do we know if we should
meet the genuine needs of widows?
And so he uses this and specifically
in verses four and eight.
He says to meet the needs of widows who
don't have other people to support them.
So verse four says, but if any widow
has a child or grandchildren, to
let them learn to practice godliness
towards their own family and repay
their parents for this pleases God,
something to kind of note here.
Paul is also dealing with an a time
with context is important a time
where there was not social security.
There was not this ability for retirement.
So Paul is speaking to a time when.
Majority of widows once they lost their
husband and they could not meet their
own needs, had a genuine need not today.
So, you know, if there's widows out there
that does not able to meet their genuine
need, even though they have some security
doesn't mean, well, we say you have social
security, you can meet your own needs.
We still need to meet
those needs as Sharon.
This is where I want to speak to you.
You may not even be thinking about this,
but you may have widows in your face.
And maybe you didn't understand
that part of your role as a Christ
follower is to help meet those needs.
And we understand that's difficult.
Oh, maybe I didn't know that
that was something for me is
how does this apply to me?
Maybe there are some widows in my family
that I can begin to meet those needs.
And so he's speaking
directly to that group.
So it doesn't relieve that burden.
So here here's the reason why I
want to read John 1335 is one of my
verses that I've shared a lot, but it
says this, it says by this, everyone
will know that you are my disciples.
If you love.
Speaking of what Paul's addressing in
the church is that we model what it
truly means to be a follower of Christ
is by the way that we take care of
widows in our family, by the way we
take care of widows in our church, we
are showing other people who Christ is.
And I've said this, I've used
this word a lot, this idea behind
permeate or perfume, right.
You know, this, when grandma walks in the
room, you know, she's here because you've,
where's that tea that Dick perfume.
So think about this when the church
is doing a good job of ministry, not
only the widow's needs, and this is
why I want to dive a little bit deeper
for our church, because we may not be
able to be meeting that need right now,
but meeting the needs of one another,
it becomes something that's talked
about outside this church, and it
permeates the air where somebody says,
I want to be a part of that community.
Paul is saying, if we do a great job,
Of ministering to one another, we
will influence the world for Christ.
It will invite them into the room to be
taken care of and be a part of helping
take another period care of other people
because of what Christ has done for us.
So that's so important that we see that.
So verse eight though is very direct
and this is what verse eight says it
says, but if anyone does not provide
for his own family, especially for
his own household, he has denied the
faith and is worse than an emblem.
Wow.
That's a tough one.
It's really challenging believers to
say, if new you neglect your family's
needs, you're worse than an unbeliever.
And I want to ask this question
because I think it's important.
We hang out here for a minute and make
sure we're all on the same page with this.
Why do you think it's worse for a
believer to not meet the needs of
their family than an unbeliever who
doesn't meet the needs of their family?
Somebody answered that.
What's that you should know better.
See the difference between a believer
and an unbeliever is the believer has
the spirit of God living inside him,
which has conviction right with the
conviction and the word of God to guide us
towards meeting the needs of the church.
But when they neglect the spirit
of God and the word of God and
choose not to obey his word.
Then one who is an unbeliever who
doesn't have the spirit of God who
doesn't have the word of God that doesn't
know any better and see that this is
something I want to stop right now.
And I want to dive back out into it.
If you have sin in your life as
a believer and you're refusing
to repent of it, it is worse than
an unbeliever refusing to repent.
Why an unbeliever may have not come
to the conclusion with the word of God
and the truth of the God in their life.
Now again, they're still accountable
to their sin, but I would say this as
an a believer, if we're refusing to
repent, we know it, we recognize it.
And we're refusing.
It is though we are rejecting
what Christ has done for us.
That is a challenging statement guys.
And I, I, I want you to see this
to not miss that whole picture with
that, but it is true when we're
speaking obviously to family and
something else I want to mention.
This is, as we do, as families, as we do
meet the needs of widows or other people
in our family, here's a challenge to you.
Don't complain about it.
You ever hear the statement
when you complain about doing
something for somebody, but
you're like, Hey, I'm doing this.
You're looking for a pat on the back
and you're looking for sympathy.
You've lost your reward.
You've lost the benefit of it.
So when you meet these needs,
do it with the joy, do it as
though you are serving the Lord.
The Bible talks about that.
Do everything as though
you do it unto the Lord.
I'll tell you this.
That's why I can scrub toilets.
I don't like cleaning beds.
But when I'm, I'm cleaning toilets
and I'm washing sinks and it's not
all the time, but when I do, you know,
what I would think of this is serving
the Lord by also serving my wife.
So sometimes we do things
that are difficult and hard.
It doesn't mean that things are difficult
and hard, you know, that, that, you
know, you wish it wasn't, but it is.
But it's because you're doing it
to serve the Lord through that.
Right.
So don't complain about it
because you'll lose your reward.
And I just, I've been around
several that have done that and
that I just, I laugh sometimes.
So he goes on here, right?
The qualifications was one widows who
don't have other people to support them.
Number two is widows
who are faithful, right?
Let's look at verse five through seven.
It says this.
It says the widow who is truly
in need and has left all alone.
Has put our hope in God and continues
nine day and your petitions and prayers,
Paul saying that there's going to be
widows that have needs all over, but
women who are committed to Christ
women who wouldn't I'll give him,
give this Galatians six, 10 says this.
It says, therefore, as we
have opportunity, let us work
for good for all, if we can.
But Paul's saying, but especially for
those who belong to the household of.
These are women.
He's saying that meet this qualification
or women who love Jesus, who are basically
committed to him day in and day out.
And so does that sound harsh right?
To only be committed to
those women and to help them?
Here's what he'll say is he's saying
that when you meet their needs,
they're not going to waste it away.
They actually have a genuine need
because they're relying on the Lord.
I always tell people this.
I love whenever people talk about,
Hey, You know, we're praying right
now for God to move big financially
in our life or for health.
Why?
Because I hear them dependent
upon the Lord, not on our sources.
So in that a lot of times when
I see people are waiting and it
depended on the Lord to meet a
need, I want to help meet that need.
But whenever we tend to look other
directions, it really would say is,
would they, even if I can help them,
would they even give God glory?
And that's where Paul is sitting here,
but then we go on to verse six and seven.
This is another tough part.
He says, however, She who
is self-indulgent is dead.
Even when she lives, command this
also that she will be above reproach.
So Paul's pretty direct of
who shouldn't receive help.
And here's what he's saying.
She should not be, self-indulgent
a person who would receive help
and then seek her own pleasures.
And her own will over God's is one that
should not receive support as a widow.
And so it's, it's, it's tough sometimes
when we say, Hey, we have to make.
On who deserves help or not.
When we're talking about the
church and this is not that Paul
doesn't love the person who is
struggling in those situations, we
should still minister to families.
But we talk about this minister in
ways that doesn't cause them to be
dependent upon you as church, as a
church in Oklahoma, when I dealt with
benevolence consistently, if we were
to help every family that came in,
they will become dependent upon us.
The church hinder the resources to be
able to meet the needs that need to be.
And they would have been hindered because
they would've been dependent upon us.
They would not.
And we'll see this later, they would end
up caught themselves in sin, idleness and
things that would not be honoring to God.
So verse five, again, says that she has
to be a woman who depends upon the Lord
continually and prays and intercedes for
those needs so that God can meet them.
So then we jump to verse nine.
What's the next qualification?
Well, verse nine says
the next qualification.
To be on the list.
It says no widow is to be enrolled
in the list for support, unless
she's at least 60 years old.
Why would Paul say this?
Well, we'll see later on that he's
going to address younger women
who don't need to be on the list.
It's because younger women can
remarry and receive support there.
So a woman of sixties,
probably not going to remarry.
And so there's a likelihood at this
point that because she's not gonna
able to receive for support from her
kids, that she doesn't have any kids
and she can't remarry, she's going
to need support from the church.
So he uses that verse and he says,
Hey, this is probably the age range
in which they're going to need help.
Right.
Um, but he has.
Um, he's talking about this word
enrolled in, uh, we're going to talk
about this in just a minute with the
younger one, but this warden role is
that these ladies would not be enrolled
just to sit there and receive support.
But most of these women would
actually be part of the church.
They would actually commit to
being a widow for the rest of
their life to be able to minister
alongside the apostles in this work.
Um, so then the next qualification,
I'm at the verse 10, and
so at least 60 years old.
And it says, uh, the has
been a wife of one husband.
Right?
So here's another question, right?
Why would he say a wife of one husband?
Well, there's another key and this
is speaking directly to women who
have chose divorce, not because of
abuse, but because they chose to
leave the person who could support.
For selfish reasons for
sinful reasons, right?
We're Paul's not directly talking
to the women who need to get
out of situations that are bad.
Paul's also not talking to women who
have lost a husband in death, remarried
and lost another husband and death.
He's really talking about women
who would be typically you would
call the ones that are always going
around marrying consistently and
divorcing from a sinful standpoint.
So he's saying women who have not, I
would say this women who have taken.
Uh, the woman he's talking about,
or the woman who would have taken
marriage for granted, um, and not
seeing it as a sacred from the Lord.
And then he goes on in verse
10, widows who had been known
for good words in verse 10.
He says it is well known for good works,
that if she has brought up children
shown hospitality, wash the Saint's feet.
I love that one, ladies, you
better start washing feet to make
sure you get on the list later.
He's given us giving examples, by the
way, he's not given an exhaustive list.
So, you know, I'll continue
reading here in versus.
Um, uh, help the afflicted and
devoted herself to every good work.
Um, and so you see this,
he gave these examples.
And so if you just want to kind of
know, he's getting some of the examples,
not everyone that would qualify.
That's why at the end, he
says devoted to good works.
But if he says brought up children write
her own or orphan sees, she's shown
hospitality to other people by letting
them stay in her home or providing them.
He's washing the believers,
believers feet, which means
this she's humbly served.
Other believers.
She's helped the afflicted, the
ministry of the need, the homeless,
the hungry, the sick, and she's devoted
to good works right works that are
unto the Lord and other believers.
So the resources given to these widows
were based upon not only their need, but
also their past commitment to the Lord
and their future commitment to the Lord.
So I, I say this again,
why are there stipulations?
Because number one, you
can't meet all the needs.
The church only has a limit amount
of resources, but to those, if you
were to be everybody's need, that
would become dependent upon you.
And they wouldn't even be
coming with the right heart.
And I think there's a way to address those
who you don't meet the needs that you
come alongside them to talk about how.
So then he talks about younger widows.
This is the ones that we
would say are less than 59.
So Hey, if you're in this room
and you're less than 59, I
guess you're listed as younger.
Um, I would say he was actually
directly speaking to younger
widows probably even than 59.
Okay.
Um, but he's saying that you should not
enroll these ladies to be cared for.
So here's why he re saved, refuse.
To be cared for.
So in verse 11, it says this, um, it
says, but refuse to enroll younger widows
for when they are drawn away from Christ
by desire that they'll want to marry.
So naturally younger widows
would want to remarry.
So this is what Paul's not saying again,
and this is why I think it's important.
We walk verse by verse.
Paul's not saying, Hey, you have
to marry what he's saying is
you'll be drawn away to marry.
So he's actually pointing to that to
be enrolled to this list is to commit
to being a widow for life it's to
commit to when you're a widow you're
receiving your needs be met, but you're
also committed to the Lord's word.
And he's saying if you're
young, there's a good chance.
That you won't succeed at that.
You're going to desire to
be able to go and do that.
And so he says, I encourage you later on.
He says, I encourage you to marry.
Right.
But then in verse 12, he goes
on and he says, and so they'll
just be a versa in verse 11.
So Christ by desire, they may want
to Murray and then therefore receive
condemnation because they have
renounced their original pledge.
And again, that's that.
To be a part of helping the
church in their agreement
to be committed as a widow.
But then he goes on to verse
13 and that's the same time.
They will also learn to be
idle going from house to house.
Um, they'll not only be idle, but there
there'll be gossips and busybodies
saying things they shouldn't say.
So here's what he's saying
to those younger women.
If they were getting their
needs met, they would spend more
of their time in simple acts.
There's consistently, even in
the prophets that talks about
idleness and you guys know.
When you get idle time, which we
just learned, mothers typically don't
get, but when you get idle time, it's
when sin usually starts creeping in.
And if you've never dealt with
that praise, God, I'm so thankful.
You've never dealt with that.
But then the moments where I've
had idleness sin creeps in.
So Paul saying, Hey, don't
enlist these women because we
want to save them from being.
And leading to sinful acts and
he gave some examples most likely
because he'd seen that happen, right.
Gossiping and going around and telling,
telling things they shouldn't be telling.
So the goal again was not just, um, so
that they could meet needs, but also so
that they could prevent them from sin.
So then in verse 14, he says, therefore,
I want younger women to marry, have
children manage their households and give
the adversary no opportunity to accuse.
So, this is where Paul encourages women
to marry, encourages them to marry.
He doesn't command them.
And this is something I
want to be careful about.
He doesn't command them.
He encouraged them because he's
saying, Hey, that's probably a
better route for you to avoid sin.
Can a woman choose to not
remarry and commit herself?
Absolutely.
That's honorable.
So, so that's not what he's saying.
And I always want to be clear in that
when we're talking through some of these.
But he's also speaking to wanting
to meet the needs in the church.
And these women most likely could have
met their own needs at their young
age, by not only marrying, but some
other works that they could have done.
So why is Paul again,
suggesting to get married?
Verse 15, really points to this.
He says verse 15 for some, have
already turned away to follow Satan
women who were not getting married.
We're going off and doing sinful things.
And what we read, even read into
this verse a little bit more, some
of them were probably getting caught
in sexual immoral things because
they were drawn to these things.
And so why were they
drawn to these things?
Because they had more time on their hands
because they weren't getting married and
that's why he's encouraging them to marry.
And Paul talks a lot about that.
If you can't control yourself, go
get married so that it isn't sin.
And so he's actually here to
help those who are younger with.
To actually there, there he's
helping and some can come across
and say he doesn't care for them.
He absolutely does, but he's encouraging
them to not enroll because of this.
And then verse 16, he says, if
any believing woman has a widow
in her family, let her help them.
So he's pointing back to as families,
we need to meet these needs.
He says, because let the church
not be burdened so that it
can help widows ingenuine.
I think through this, and I know
what we're sitting here saying,
okay, what does this mean for us?
One?
We need to remember it because
we're going to need it one day.
But I just think this is also as a church.
We can learn that we need to meet
genuine needs in our community
and in our church family.
And we need to not get distracted by
things that maybe people who would take
them and waste those resources away, or
our time away should not receive them.
Not because you don't love
them, you actually do.
And there's a way to walk
with them alongside that.
But to also.
I would say this empower believers to
actually do what God's called them to do.
And this is where we would say as
families, I started asking myself this
question, how can I look at my family?
Not just my family here now in
Ohio, but all my family back
home and say, is there a family
members that I can help meet needs?
You know, that I feel like that that's
a command on our lives as believers
to help meet our family's needs.
It's honorable.
It is good.
And so really that's where Paul
saying, even at the end, is he saying
women, you can help meet these needs.
And it's not saying the husband's
not gonna meet these needs.
What is saying is typically in
that day, the husband's working.
So how he's helping his wife meet those
needs is he's actually helping provide
to do, be able to meet those needs.
Right.
So as we kind of finish up today
here, here's what I would say.
What is our take home was.
I would say this just in that first
section, we shouldn't play favorites or
treat people different because of their
age, whether you're younger or not.
Right.
We should treat family, uh,
with respect, love, and care.
Right?
Number two, we see here is that
we should take care of widows who
have a legitimate need, right.
Ones who don't have believing relatives,
who can do it once who have served the
Lord and are committed to the Lord, right?
Their character backs that up.
But what do we know, or what do we do now
that our church doesn't have widows yet?
This is my challenge for you is,
is even for me, is what do we do
if we're walking through this text
and again, you're going, I don't
feel like I have a take-home today.
I think we would say we now know
we're accountable as a church on how
to take care of widows in our church.
I would also challenge us in this, and
this is why I want to bring this verse.
And James 1 27, it says pure and
undefiled religion before God.
The father is this to look after orphans
and widows in their distress and to
keep oneself unstained from the world.
I believe that as a church that we
can take a day like today, and we can
remember that we have a responsibility,
not only for widows, but for orphans,
for those who have needs in our church.
That should be a reminder to us
to see people in need and meet.
Because if it's genuine,
then we need to do it.
We're called you that as a church,
as an individual, that may be
something that you're being called to.
And so we're going to have an
invitation here in just a minute.
And during this invitation, I always
give you guys something to consider,
and this is an opportunity to take
what you've heard today and say, okay,
Lord, what are you speaking to me?
And again, this may be one
that you're sitting here going,
what does this mean for me?
And I really want to challenge you to,
to personalize this as an individual, and
then look as a church, what we're doing.
So the number one.
I think during this time of invitation, we
need to seek the Lord in our lives, right?
To see if there's any widows or
families members in need that you can
help meet that need the genuine need.
If you're wondering Ben, how do
I know if it's a genuine need?
You know what the Lord's promise
and James one five, if you'll
ask for wisdom, he will give it.
So you seek the Lord, you seek the
Lord for peace to meet that need.
And then if you say, Hey, this
person doesn't have a genuine.
But they seem to be the
one that's always needy.
Maybe God's calling you to come alongside
them and say, Hey, we want to help.
But here's our concern is that
maybe you're not putting your
full effort to be able to help.
And so we want to come alongside
you and help by also one showing
you who Jesus is and caring and
long walk working alongside you.
But we can obviously see how
the Lord leads us to meet.
Number two as a church, we can be ready
in the future to meet widow's needs.
And I would even say challenge ourselves
to look not only in the needs of our
church, but also the needs of our
community alongside other churches, to
be able to meet their needs as a church,
we need to be wise in our generosity, but
we need to be generous with our resources
because that's why we've been given them.
And then the last one is
what I would challenge you
to as asked the Lord to help.
Us as a church, conduct ourselves
in a way that represents
Christ to the world around us.
This is the whole theme that
we've been talking about.
How do we conduct ourselves?
Not to justify ourselves before the Lord,
but to say, Hey, I want to make sure that
I'm not being one living one way insane.
The other, I also want to
model to those around me.
And so maybe to you today, you
need to, to reflect and say,
do I need to get my life back?
In line with the word of God to reflect
Christ the way he's called me to reflect.
And if so, take some time to
ask God to forgive you, give you
that heart to surrender to him.
But here here's the last thing that I
want to say on a day like today, you
could say, man, is this really pointing
anybody to their need for Jesus?
100%?
Yes.
I believe that even in a room this
size, you may wonder, oh, everybody in
here has to, I've already given them.
Absolutely not there's people in this
room that may be wrestling with, Hey,
have I truly given my life to Christ?
Do I even know who Jesus is?
Like, I've been trying to do
everything right, but I've been
trying to do that out of my flesh.
Not really out of God, living inside
of me and guiding me, maybe that's you.
And if that's you, my encouragement
today is to not let another day go by.
We, we believe every one of us believe
we're going to wake up tomorrow.
There's no.
Why not choose today as your
day to give your life to Christ?
To, to what I would say is to begin
to explore what it means to know him
personally and begin to live for him.
And also what I would say this to
begin to apply his love and his mercy
and grace to your life every day.
If you haven't done that, you're
missing the greatest thing.
If you're only coming every week and
hearing messages that tell you how to
be a better person, you're missing the.
We're wanting to point you to
Jesus who changes our life.
And when he changes our life, it's not so
that we just do all these things, right.
It's really for us to just know Jesus.
And then as we know him, we
reflect that to the world.
And when we see life
change, we celebrate it.
I've seen so many people in our
church life's changed because
they've given their lives to.
And I would challenge
you to choose that today.
If you haven't given your life
to Christ, you may be asked
this question, how do I do it?
How do I give my life to Christ?
It's not a formula.
It's not these like nine words.
I say, it's an attitude of heart.
It's literally asking the Lord to
forgive you of your sins, recognizing
your need for God in your life,
inviting him into your life.
And beginning to walk in faith with him
every day in a relationship with him.
So it's that simple.
But I would say this don't do it alone.
So this is why during invitation
here in a moment, Broxton to
come up, I'm going to pray.
And I sit in the back and I seen
the bag every week and I think
I've had one person come to me.
I don't over the last year,
so maybe I need to start
staying in somewhere different.
I usually find people come to me
after service and that's fine.
I find some of you will talk to
me in, in my home and that's fine.
Whatever you do.
Don't leave today before you deal with
salvation for you deal with whether
you've given your life to Christ.
Come talk to me back here during an
invitation, come talk to me after service,
whatever it is, please don't leave today.
Before you give your life to Christ.
You're asked questions about what it
means to give your life to Christ,
but if that's not you today, I still
ask during this time of invitation
to consider what the Lord spoke.
Say yes to Jesus, repent of sins and leave
out of here, living your life for Christ
so that the world can know who he is.
So I'm going to pray for us and then
we'll have a time of invitation.
So Lord Jesus, we thank you for today.
Lord, we thank you for this text to
guide and direct us as a church Lord,
because Lord, we need your wisdom
on how to conduct ourselves Lord.
In today, you specifically
talk to us about how.
Um, treat those Lord that are
older or younger than us Lord and
how we should not neglect them.
Lord, how each one of them plays
an important role in our lives.
Lord, we were reminded today of the
importance of ministering to the
needs of widows Lord in our church
and Lord, when that time comes that we
have the ability to meet those needs.
Lord, I pray that we do it in such a God
honoring way that we are ready for it.
Lord, I even challenged each one of us
as individuals and add collectively as.
That we seek you today.
And we say, Lord, how can we be better?
And meeting the needs in our church
and even meeting the needs in our
community with the resources that you've
given us or to meet the needs of our
community to help lives be changed
so that they can know who you are.
So Lord, give us the wisdom for that Lord.
Also, I just pray for
the person in this room.
Lord, the person in this room that's
considering giving their lives to you.
Maybe afraid to, to admit their need
for you, Lord, I pray that today they
have the boldness to say yes to you,
Lord, that they do come back and talk
to me if it's after service or during
invitation Lord that they come and ask,
Hey, how do I get my life to Jesus?
Or, or they come tell me that they gave
their lives to Jesus or give them the
boldness to do that because that's why
we're here for more and more people to
know you and more and more people to begin
to live a life that experiences your love,
grace and mercy every day and show them.
So Lord, we love you and we praise you
and we pray this in your holy name.
Amen.